= WiceGrid

Version:: 3.2.0.pre1
Author::  Yuri Leikind
Sources:: https://github.com/leikind/wice_grid/
Examples online:: http://grid.leikind.org
News:: http://leikind.org/pages/wicegrid/
Email::   "Yuri Leikind" <yuri.leikind at gmail dot com>


FOR RAILS 3.0.X AND 3.1.X USE VERSION 3.0.4.
FOR RAILS 2 USE VERSION 0.6 (https://github.com/leikind/wice_grid/tree/master).



== Intro

WiceGrid is a Rails grid plugin.

One of the goals of this plugin was to allow the programmer to define the contents of the cell by himself,
just like one does when rendering a collection via a simple table (and this is what differentiates WiceGrid
from various scaffolding solutions), but automate implementation of filters, ordering, paginations,
CSV export, and so on. Ruby blocks provide an elegant means for this.


WiceGrid builds the call to the ActiveRecord layer for you and creates a table view with the results
of the call including:

* paging
* sortable columns
* filtering by multiple columns
* CSV export
* saving queries

All working nicely together. Filters are added automatically according to the type of the underlying DB column.
Filtering by more than one column at the same time is possible.
More than one such grid can appear on a page, and manipulations with one grid do not have any impact on the other.

WiceGrid does not take a collection as an input, it works directly with ActiveRecord.

WiceGrid does not use AJAX calls to reload itself, instead simple GET requests are used for this,
nevertheless, all other page parameters are respected and preserved.
WiceGrid views do not contain forms so you can include it in your own forms.

There are two major branches of WiceGrid.

WiceGrid is known to work with MySQL and Postgres.

=== Examples

This tutorial is accompanied by a sample application with WiceGrid examples which you
can browse online ( http://grid.leikind.org ),
or just view the code ( https://github.com/leikind/wice_grid_testbed ).


== Requirements

Rails version 3.2.x or newer, jQuery, jQuery Datepicker.
For Rails 3.0.x and 3.1.x versions use version 3.0.4.
For Rails 2 use version 0.6 (https://github.com/leikind/wice_grid/tree/master).

WARNING: Since 3.2.pre2 WiceGrid is not compatible with <tt>will_paginate</tt> because internally it uses <tt>kaminari</tt> for pagination, and <tt>kaminari</tt> is not compatible with <tt>will_paginate</tt>!

== How-To


=== Support for javascript frameworks

WiceGrid started as a plugin using the Prototype javascript framework.
Support for jQuery was added for version 0.6.
Beginning from version 3.2 only jQuery is supported.


=== Installation

Add the following to your Gemfile:

  gem "wice_grid", '3.2.0.pre1'

and run the <tt>bundle</tt> command.

Run the generator:

   rails g wice_grid:install

This adds the config file <tt>wice_grid_config.rb</tt> to <tt>config/initializers/</tt>, the locale file
<tt>wice_grid.yml</tt> to <tt>config/locales/</tt>, and the styles file
<tt>wice_grid.css.scss</tt> to <tt>app/assets/stylesheets/</tt>.

Require WiceGrid javascript in your js index file:

  //= require wice_grid

Make sure that jQuery is required, and if the application uses Date and DateTime filters, jQuery Datepicker has
to be required as well. Here is an example of application.js with everything WiceGrid needs:

  //= require jquery
  //= require jquery_ujs
  //= require jquery-ui
  //= require wice_grid
  //= require jquery.ui.datepicker
  //= require_tree .




=== Basics

The simplest example of a WiceGrid for one simple DB table called ApplicationAccount is the following:

Controller:

  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task)

It is also possible to use an  ActiveRecord::Relation instance as the first argument:

  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task.where(:active => true))

View:

  <%= grid(@tasks_grid) do |g|

    g.column do |task|
      task.id
    end

    g.column  do |task|
      task.title
    end

    g.column do |task|
      task.description
    end

    g.column do |task|
      task.archived? ? 'Yes' : 'No'
    end

    g.column do |task|
      link_to('Edit', edit_task_path(task))
    end
  end -%>

Code <tt>g.column do |task| ... end</tt>
defines everything related to a column in the resulting view table including column names, sorting,
filtering, the content of the column cells, etc.
The return value of the block is the table cell content.

Column names are defined with parameter <tt>:name</tt>:

  <%= grid(@tasks_grid) do |g|

    g.column :name => 'ID' do |task|
      task.id
    end

    g.column :name => 'Title'  do |task|
      task.title
    end

    g.column  :name => 'Description' do |task|
      task.description
    end

    g.column  :name => 'Archived' do |task|
      task.archived? ? 'Yes' : 'No'
    end

    g.column   do |task|
      link_to('Edit', edit_task_path(task))
    end
  end -%>

To add filtering and ordering, declare to which column in the underlying database
table(s) the view column corresponds using parameter <tt>:attribute</tt> :

  <%= grid(@tasks_grid) do |g|

    g.column :name => 'ID', :attribute => 'id' do |task|
      task.id
    end

    g.column :name => 'Title', :attribute => 'title'  do |task|
      task.title
    end

    g.column  :name => 'Description', :attribute => 'description' do |task|
      task.description
    end

    g.column  :name => 'Archived', :attribute => 'archived' do |task|
      task.archived? ? 'Yes' : 'No'
    end

    g.column   do |task|
      link_to('Edit', edit_task_path(task))
    end
  end -%>

This will  add sorting links and filters for columns +Username+ and +Active+.
The plugin automatically creates filters according to the type
of the database column. In the above example a text field will be created for column Title (title is a string),
for column +Archived+ a dropdown filter will be created with options 'Yes', 'No', and '--',
and for the integer ID two short text fields are
added which can contain the numeric range (more than, less than).

It is important to remember that <tt>:attribute</tt> is the name of the database column,
not a model attribute.
Of course, all database columns have corresponding model attributes,
but not all model attributes map to columns in the same table with the same name.

Read more about available filters in the documentation
for the column method.

Read the section about custom dropdown filters for more advanced filters.


For columns like

  g.column :name => 'Title', :attribute => 'title'  do |task|
    task.title
  end

where the block contains just a call to the same attribute declared by :attribute, the block can be omitted:

  <%= grid(@tasks_grid) do |g|

    g.column :name => 'ID', :attribute => 'id'

    g.column :name => 'Title', :attribute => 'title'

    g.column  :name => 'Description', :attribute => 'description'

    g.column  :name => 'Archived', :attribute => 'archived' do |task|
      task.archived? ? 'Yes' : 'No'
    end

    g.column   do |task|
      link_to('Edit', edit_task_path(task))
    end
  end -%>


In this case +name+ will be used as the method name to send to the ActiveRecord instance.

If only ordering is needed, and no filter, we can turn off filters using <tt>:filter</tt> :

  g.column :name => 'ID', :attribute => 'id', :filter => false

If no ordering links are needed, use <tt>:ordering => false</tt>:

  g.column :name => 'Added', :attribute => 'created_at', :ordering => false

It is important to understand that it is up to the developer to make sure that the value
returned by a column block (the content of a cell) corresponds to the underlying database
column specified by  <tt>:attribute</tt> (and <tt>:model</tt> discussed below).


=== Rendering filter panel

The filter panel can be shown and hidden clicking the icon with binoculars.

The way the filter panel is shown after the page is loaded is controlled via parameter
<tt>:show_filters</tt> of the <tt>grid</tt> helper.
Possible values are:

* <tt>:when_filtered</tt> - the filter is shown when the current table is the result of filtering
* <tt>:always</tt> - always show the filter
* <tt>:no</tt> - never show the filter

Example:

  <%= grid(@tasks_grid, :show_filters => :always) do |g|
    ......
  end -%>


Filter related icons (filter icon, reset icon, show/hide icon) are placed in the header of the last column if
it doesn't have any filter or a column name, otherwise an additional table column is added. To always place
the icons in the additional column, set <tt>Wice::Defaults::REUSE_LAST_COLUMN_FOR_FILTER_ICONS</tt> to +false+ in
the configuration file.


=== Initial Ordering

Initializing the grid we can also define the column by which the record will be ordered
<em>on the first rendering of the grid</em>, when the user has not set their ordering
setting by clicking the column label, and the order direction:

  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task,
    :order => 'tasks.title',
    :order_direction => 'desc'
  )

=== Records Per Page

The number of rows per page is set with <tt>:per_page</tt>:

  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task, :per_page => 40)

=== Conditions

The +initialize_grid+ method supports a <tt>:conditions</tt> parameter which is passed
on to the underlying ActiveRecord, so it can be in any format processable by ActiveRecord:

  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task,
    :conditions => ["archived = false and estimated_time > ?", 100]
  )

  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task,
    :include => :project,
    :conditions => {:archived => false, :project => {:active => true}}
  )



A good example is substituting a common pattern like

  @user_groups = @portal_application.user_groups

with WiceGrid code:

  @user_groups_grid = initialize_grid(UserGroup, :conditions => ['portal_application_id = ?', @portal_application])

Alternatively, instead of a Class object as the first parameter, you can use  ActiveRecord::Relation:


  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task.
    where(:archived => false, :projects => {:active => true}).
    joins(:project)
  )


Please note that though all queries inside of WiceGrid are run without the default
scope, if you use an ActiveRecord::Relation instance to initialize grid, it will
already include the default scope. Thus you might consider using <tt>unscoped</tt>:

  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task.unscoped.
    where(:archived => false, :projects => {:active => true}).
    joins(:project)
  )

=== Queries with join tables

WiceGrid also supports ActiveRecord's <tt>:joins</tt> and <tt>:include</tt>.

  @products_grid = initialize_grid(Product,
    :include => :category,
    :order => 'products.name',
    :per_page => 20)

Note that if we want to order initially by a column from a joined table we have to specify the
table and the column name with the sql dot notation, that is, <tt>products.name</tt>

To show columns of joined tables in the view table, the ActiveRecord model class name has
to be specified, that corresponds to the joined table:

  <%= grid(@products_grid) do |g|
    g.column :name => 'Product Name', :attribute => 'name' do |product|  # primary table
      link_to(product.name, product_path(product))
    end

    g.column :name => 'Category', :attribute => 'name', :model => Category |product| # joined table
      product.category.name
    end
  %>

Please note that the blockless definition of the column only works with columns from the main table
and it won't work with columns with <tt>:model</tt>

=== Joined associations referring to the same table

In case there are two joined associations both referring to the same table,
ActiveRecord constructs a query where
the second join provides an alias for the joined table. To enable WiceGrid to order and
filter by columns belonging to different associations
but originating from the same table, set <tt>:table_alias</tt> to this alias:

Model:

   class Project < ActiveRecord::Base
     belongs_to :customer, :class_name => 'Company'
     belongs_to :supplier, :class_name => 'Company'
   end

Controller:

    @projects_grid = initialize_grid(Project, :include => [:customer, :supplier] )


View:

  <%= grid(@projects_grid, :show_filters => :always) do |g|

    g.column :name => 'Project Name', :attribute => 'name'

    g.column  :name => 'Customer company', :model => 'Company', :attribute => 'name' do |task|
      task.customer.name if task.customer
    end

    g.column  :name => 'Supplier company', :model => 'Company', :attribute => 'name', :table_alias => ' suppliers_projects' do |task|
      task.supplier.name if task.supplier
    end

  end -%>


=== More than one grid on a page

It is possible to use more that one grid on a page, each with its own state.
To do so, you must specify the name of the grid in +initialize_grid+ using
parameter <tt>:name</tt>

The name serves as the base name for HTTP parameters, DOM IDs, etc, so it
is important that all grids on a page have different names. The default
name is 'grid'.

The name can only contain alphanumeric characters.

  @projects_grid = initialize_grid(Project, :name => 'g1' )
  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task, :name => 'g2')


=== Custom Ordering

It is possible to change the way results are ordered injecting a chunk of SQL code, for example, use
<tt>ORDER BY INET_ATON(ip_address)</tt> instead of <tt>ORDER BY ip_address</tt>.

To do so, provide parameter <tt>:custom_order</tt> in the initialization of the grid with a hash where keys are fully qualified names
of database columns, and values the required chunks of SQL to use in the ORDER BY clause.

For example:


  @hosts_grid = initialize_grid(Host,
    :custom_order => {
      'hosts.ip_address' => 'INET_ATON(hosts.ip_address)'
    })


It is possible to use the '?' character instead of the name of the column in the hash value:

    @hosts_grid = initialize_grid(Host,
      :custom_order => {
        'hosts.ip_address' => 'INET_ATON( ? )'
      })

Values can also be Proc objects. The parameter supplied to such a Proc object is the name of the column:

      @hosts_grid = initialize_grid(Host,
        :custom_order => {
          'hosts.ip_address' => lambda{|f| "INET_ATON( #{f} )"}
        })


=== Custom dropdown filters

It is possible to construct custom dropdown filters.
Depending on the value of <tt>column</tt> parameter<tt>:custom_filter</tt> different
modes are available:


==== Array of two-element arrays or a hash

An array of two-element arrays or a hash are semantically identical ways of creating a custom filter.

Every first item of the two-element array is used for the label of the select option while the second
element is the value of the select option. In case of a hash the keys become the labels
of the generated dropdown list, while the values will be values of options of the dropdown list:

  g.column :name => 'Status', :attribute => 'status',
           :custom_filter => {'Development' => 'development', 'Testing' => 'testing', 'Production' => 'production'}

  g.column :name => 'Status', :attribute => 'status',
          :custom_filter => [['Development', 'development'], ['Testing', 'testing'], ['Production', 'production']]

It is also possible to submit a array of strings or numbers, in this case every item will be used
both as the value of the select option and as its label:

  g.column :name => 'Status', :attribute => 'status',
           :custom_filter => ['development', 'testing', 'production']


==== :auto

<tt>:auto</tt> - a powerful option which populates the dropdown list with all unique values of
the column specified by
<tt>:attribute</tt> and <tt>:model</tt>.

  g.column :name => 'Status', :attribute => 'status',
           :custom_filter => ['development', 'testing', 'production']

Note that in the above example all names of all possible categories will appear even if they
don't appear in the current resultset.
To only show those which do appear in the resutset,
use an array of symbol messages (see section 'An array of symbols').


==== Custom filters and associations (joined tables)

In most cases custom fields are needed for one-to-many and many-to-many associations.

To correctly build a filter condition foreign keys have to be used, not the actual values rendered in the column.

For example, if there is a column:

  g.column :name => 'Project Name', :attribute => 'name', :model => 'Project' do |task|
    task.project.name if task.project
  end

adding <tt>:custom_filter</tt> like this:

  g.column :name => 'Project Name', :attribute => 'name', :model => 'Project',
           :custom_filter => Project.find(:all).map{|pr| [pr.name, pr.name]} do |task|
    task.project.name if task.project
  end

is bad style and can fail, because the resulting condition will compare the name of the project, <tt>projects.name</tt> to a string,
and in some databases it is possible that different  records (projects in our example) have the same name.

To use filter with foreign keys, we have to change the declaration of the column from <tt>projects.name</tt>, to
<tt>tasks.project_id</tt>, and build the dropdown with foreign keys as values:


  g.column :name => 'Project Name', :attribute => 'tasks.project_id',
           :custom_filter => Project.find(:all).map{|pr| [pr.id, pr.name]} do |task|
    task.project.name if task.project
  end

However, this will break the ordering of the column - the column will be ordered by the integer foreign key.
To fix this, we can override the ordering using <tt>:custom_order</tt>:

  @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task,
    :include => :project,
    :custom_order => {
      'tasks.project_id' => 'projects.name'
    }
  )


==== Any other symbol (method name) or an array of symbols (method names)


For one symbol (different from <tt>:auto</tt>) the dropdown list is populated by all
unique values returned by the method with this name
sent to <em>all</em> ActiveRecord objects throughout all pages.

The conditions set up by the user are ignored, that is, the records used are all those found on
all pages without any filters active.

For an array of symbols, the first method name is sent to the ActiveRecord
object if it responds to this method, the second method name is sent to the
returned value unless it is +nil+, and so on. In other words, a single symbol mode is the
same as an array of symbols where the array contains just one element.

  g.column :name => 'Version', :attribute => 'expected_version_id', :custom_filter => [:expected_version, :to_option] do |task|
    task.expected_version.name if task.expected_version
  end


There are two important differences from <tt>:auto</tt>:

1. The  method does not have to be a field in the result set, it is just some  value computed in the method after the database call and ActiveRecord instantiation.
2. Filtering by any option of such a custom filter will bring a non-empty list, unlike with <tt>:auto</tt>.


This mode has one major drawback - this mode requires an additional query
without +offset+ and +limit+ clauses to instantiate _all_
ActiveRecord objects, and performance-wise it brings all the advantages of pagination to nothing.
Thus, memory- and performance-wise this can be really bad for some queries and tables and should be used with care.


If the final method returns a atomic value like a string or an integer,
it is used for both the value and the label of the select option element:

  <option value="returned value">returned value</option>

However, if the retuned value is a two element array, the first element is used for the option label and the second - for the value.

Typically, a model method like the following:

  def to_option
    [name, id]
  end

together with

  :custom_filter => :to_option

would do the trick:

  <option value="id">name</option>

Alternatively, a hash with the single key-value pair can be used, where the key will be used for the label,
and the key - for the value:

  def to_option
    {name => id}
  end


==== Special treatment of values 'null' and 'not null'

Values 'null' and 'not null' in a generated custom filter are treated specially,
as SQL +null+ statement and not as strings.
Value 'null' is transformed into SQL condition <tt>IS NULL</tt>, and 'not null' into <tt>IS NOT NULL</tt>

Thus, if in a filter defined by
     :custom_filter => {'No' => 'null', 'Yes' => 'not null', '1' => 1, '2' => '2', '3' => '3'}
values '1', '2' and 'No' are selected (in a multi-select mode),  this will result in the following SQL:

    ( table.field IN ( '1', '2' ) OR table.field IS NULL )


==== Multiple selection

By default it is possible for any dropdown list to switch between single and multiple selection modes.
To only allow single selection use <tt>:allow_multiple_selection</tt>:


  g.column :name => 'Expected in version', :attribute => 'expected_version_id',
         :custom_filter => [:expected_version, :to_option], :allow_multiple_selection => false do |task|
    ...
  end


=== Defaults

Default values like  can be  changed in <tt>config/initializers/wice_grid_config.rb</tt>.

=== Submit/Reset buttons
Instead of using default Submit and Reset icons you can use external HTML elements to trigger
these actions. Add a button or any other clickable HTML element with class
+wg-external-submit-button+ or +wg-external-reset-button+, and attribute +data-grid-name+
whose value is the name of the grid:

      <button class="wg-external-submit-button" data-grid-name="grid">Submit</button>
      <button class="wg-external-reset-button" data-grid-name="grid">Reset</button>

To hide the default icons use <tt>:hide_submit_button => true</tt> and
<tt>:hide_reset_button => true</tt> in the +grid+ helper.




=== Auto-reloading filters

It is possible to configure a grid to reload itself once a filter has been changed. It works with all
filter types including the JS calendar, the only exception is the standard Rails date/datetime filters.

Use option <tt>:auto_reload</tt> in the column definiton:


  <%= grid(@tasks_grid, :show_filters => :always, :hide_submit_button => true) do |g|

    # String
    g.column :name => 'Title', :attribute => 'title', :auto_reload => true

    # Boolean
    g.column :name => 'Archived', :attribute => 'archived', :auto_reload => true

    # Custom (dropdown)
    g.column :name => 'Status', :attribute => 'status_id', :custom_filter => Status.to_dropdown, :auto_reload => true  do |task|
      task.status.name if task.status
    end

    # Datetime
    g.column :name => 'Added', :attribute => 'created_at', :auto_reload => true, :helper_style => :calendar do |task|
      task.created_at.to_s(:short)
    end

  end -%>

To make this  behavior default change constant +AUTO_RELOAD+ in the configuration file.

=== Styling the grid


==== Adding classes and styles

The +grid+ helper accepts parameter <tt>:html</tt> which is a hash of HTML
attributes for the table tag.

Another +grid+ parameter is <tt>header_tr_html</tt> which is a hash of HTML attributes to
be added to the first +tr+ tag (or two first +tr+'s if the filter row is present).

<tt>:html</tt> is a parameter for the +column+ method setting HTML attributes of +td+ tags for a certain column.

==== Adding classes and styles dynamically

WiceGrid offers ways to dynamically add classes and styles to +TR+ and +TD+
based on the current ActiveRecord instance.


For <tt><TD></tt>, let the +column+ return an array where the first item is the usual
string output whole the second is a hash of HTML attributes to be added for the
<tt><td></tt> tag of the current cell:

  g.column  do |portal_application|
    css_class = portal_application.public? ? 'public' : 'private'
    [portal_application.name, {:class => css_class}]
  end

For adding classes/styles to <tt><TR></tt> use special clause  +row_attributes+ ,
similar to +column+, only returning a hash:

    <%= grid(@versions_grid) do |g|
      g.row_attributes do |version|
        if version.in_production?
          {:style => 'background-color: rgb(255, 255, 204);'}
        end
      end

      g.column{|version| ... }
      g.column{|version| ... }
    end  -%>

Naturally, there can be only one +row_attributes+ definition for a WiceGrid instance.

Various classes do not overwrite each other, instead, they are concatenated.


=== Adding rows to the grid

It is possible to add your own handcrafted HTML after and/or before each grid row.
This works similar to +row_attributes+, by adding blocks +after_row+, +before_row+,  and +last_row+:

  <%= grid(@tasks_grid) do |g|
    g.before_row do |task, number_of_columns|
      if task.active?
        "<tr><td colspan=\"10\">Custom line for #{t.name}</td></tr>"  # this would add a row
                                                                      # before every active task row
      else
        nil
      end
    end

    g.last_row do |number_of_columns|         # This row will always be added to the bottom of the grid
      content_tag(:tr,
        content_tag(:td,
          'Last row',
        :colspan => 10),
       :class => 'last_row')
    end

    .......
  end %>

It is up for the developer to return the correct HTML code, or
return +nil+ if no row is needed for this record.
Naturally, there is only one +before_row+  definition and one +after_row+
definition for a WiceGrid instance.

The second variable injected into to <tt>before_row</tt> and <tt>after_row</tt> block, and the first parameter injected
into the <tt>last_row</tt> is the number of columns in the current grid.

=== Rendering a grid without records

If the grid does not contain any records to show, it is possible show some alternative view instead of
an empty grid. Bear in mind that if the user sets up the filters in such a way that the selection of
records is empty, this will still render the grid and it will be possible to reset the grid clicking
 on the Reset button. Thus, this only works if the initial number of records is 0.

    <%= grid(@grid) do |g|

      g.blank_slate  do
        "There are no records"
      end

      g.column  do |product|
         ...
      end
     end  -%>

There are two alternative ways to do the same, submitting a string to +blank_slate+:

  g.blank_slate "some text to be rendered"

Or a partial:

  g.blank_slate :partial => "partial_name"


=== Action Column

It is possible to add a column with checkboxes for each record. This is useful for actions with multiple records,
for example, deleting selected records. Please note that +action_column+ only creates the checkboxes and the
'Select All' and 'Deselect All' buttons, and the form itself as well as processing the parameters should be
taken care of by the application code.

  <%= grid(@tasks_grid, :show_filters => :always) do |g|

    ...

    g.action_column

    ...

  end -%>

By default the name of the HTTP parameter follows pattern <tt>"#{grid_name}[#{param_name}][]"</tt>, thus
<tt>params[grid_name][param_name]</tt> will contain an array of object IDs.

WiceGrid is form-friendly: submitting grid in a form retains the state of the form.



=== Integration of the grid with other forms on page

Imagine that the user should be able to change the behavior of the grid using some other control
on the page, and not a grid filter.

For example, on a page showing tasks,
change between 'Show active tasks' to 'Show archived tasks' using a dropdown box.
WiceGrid allows to keep the status of the grid with all the filtering and sorting
using helper +dump_filter_parameters_as_hidden_fields+ which takes a grid object and dumps
all current sorting and filtering parameters as
hidden fields. Just include <tt>dump_filter_parameters_as_hidden_fields(@grid)</tt> inside your form,
and the newly rendered grid will keep ordering and filtering.

  <% form_tag('', :method => :get) do %>
    <%= dump_filter_parameters_as_hidden_fields(@tasks_grid) %>
    <%= select_tag 'archived',
       options_for_select([['View active tasks', 0], ['View archived tasks', 1]], @archived ? 1 : 0),
      :onchange => 'this.form.submit()' %>
  <% end -%>


=== Javascript Calendar for Date and DateTime Filters.

WiceGrid uses jQuery datepicker[http://jqueryui.com/demos/datepicker/] for Date and DateTime filters
by default.
Because this is part of the standard jQuery codebase, it is not bundled together with the plugin,
and it is the responsibility of the programmer to include all necessary assets including
localization files if the application is multilingual.


jQuery datepicker does not have any time related controls, and when dealing with DateTime filters,
the time value is ignored.

Another option is standard Rails helpers. It's possible to change between the two styles of Date/DateTime
filters in <tt>config/initializers/wice_grid_config.rb</tt> using constant HELPER_STYLE, or set it on per-column basis:

  g.column :name => 'Due Date', :attribute => 'due_date', :helper_style => :calendar do |task|
    task.due_date.to_s(:short) if task.due_date
  end

  g.column :name => 'Updated', :attribute => 'updated_at', :helper_style => :standard do |task|
    task.created_at.to_s(:short)
  end

Constants +DATE_FORMAT+ and +DATETIME_FORMAT+ in the configuration file define the format of dates the user will see, as well as the
format of the string sent in a HTTP parameter. If you change the formats,  make sure that lamdbas defined
in +DATETIME_PARSER+ and +DATE_PARSER+ return valid DateTime and Date objects.

jQuery +datepicker+ uses a different format flavor, therefore there is an additional constant
+DATE_FORMAT_JQUERY+. While +DATE_FORMAT_JQUERY+ is fed to +datepicker+, +DATE_FORMAT+ is still used
for presenting initial date values in filters, so make sure that +DATE_FORMAT_JQUERY+ and +DATE_FORMAT+
result in an identical date representation.


=== Show All Records

It is possible to switch to the All Records mode clicking on link "show all" in the bottom right corner.
This functionality should be used with care. To turn this mode off for all grid instances,
change constant +ALLOW_SHOWING_ALL_QUERIES+ in <tt>config/initializers/wice_grid_config.rb</tt> to
+false+. To do so for a specific grid, use initializer parameter <tt>:allow_showing_all_records</tt>.

Configuration constant +START_SHOWING_WARNING_FROM+ sets the threshold number of all records after
which clicking on the link results in a javascript confirmation dialog.


=== CSV Export

It is possible to export the data displayed on a grid to a CSV file. The dumped data is the current resultset
with all the current filters and sorting applied, only without the pagination constraint (i.e. all pages).

To enable CSV export add parameters +enable_export_to_csv+ and +csv_file_name+ to the initialization of the grid:

  @projects_grid = initialize_grid(Project,
    :include => [:customer, :supplier],
    :name => 'g2',
    :enable_export_to_csv => true,
    :csv_file_name => 'projects'
  )

+csv_file_name+ is the name of the downloaded file. This parameter is optional, if it is missing, the name of
the grid is used instead. The export icon will appear at the bottom right corner of the grid.

Next, each grid view helper should be placed in a partial of its own, requiring it from the master
template for the usual flow. There must be no HTML or ERB code in this partial except for the grid helper.

By convention the name of such a partial follows the following pattern:

  _GRID_NAME_grid.html.erb

In other words, a grid named +tasks+ is expected to be found in a template called
<tt>_tasks_grid.html.erb</tt> (remember that the default name of grids is '+grid+'.)

Next, method +export_grid_if_requested+ should be added to the end of each action
containing grids with enabled CSV export.

+export_grid_if_requested+ intercepts CSV export requests and evaluates the partial with the required grid helper.

The naming convention for grid partials can be easily overridden by supplying a hash parameter
to +export_grid_if_requested+ where each key is the name of a grid, and the value is the name of
the template (like it is specified for +render+, i.e. without '_' and extensions):


    export_grid_if_requested('g1' => 'tasks_grid', 'g2' => 'projects_grid')

If the request is not a CSV export request, +export_grid_if_requested+ does nothing and returns
+false+, if it is a CSV export request, the method returns +true+.


If the action has no explicit +render+ call, it's OK to just place +export_grid_if_requested+
as the last line of the action:

  def index

    @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task,
      :name => 'g1',
      :enable_export_to_csv => true,
      :csv_file_name => 'tasks'
    )

    @projects_grid = initialize_grid(Project,
      :name => 'g2',
      :enable_export_to_csv => true,
      :csv_file_name => 'projects'
    )

    export_grid_if_requested
  end


Otherwise, to avoid double rendering, use the return value of the method to conditionally call your +render+ :


  def index

    ...........

    export_grid_if_requested || render(:action => 'my_template')
  end


It's also possible to supply a block which will be called if no CSV export is requested:

  def index

    ...........

    export_grid_if_requested do
       render(:action => 'my_template')
    end
  end


If a column has to be excluded from the CSV export,
set +column+ parameter +in_csv+ to +false+:

  g.column  :in_csv => false do |task|
    link_to('Edit', edit_task_path(task))
  end

If a column must appear both in HTML and CSV, but with different output,
duplicate the column and use
parameters +in_csv+ and +in_html+ to include one of them to  html output only, the other to CSV only:


  # html version
  g.column :name => 'Title', :attribute => 'title', :in_csv => false do |task|
    link_to('Edit', edit_task_path(task.title))
  end
  # plain text version
  g.column :name => 'Title', :in_html => false do |task|
    task.title
  end

The default field separator in generated CSV is a comma, but it's possible to override it:

  @products_grid = initialize_grid(Product,
    :enable_export_to_csv => true,
    :csv_field_separator => ';',
    :csv_file_name => 'products')

If you need an external CSV export button , add class +wg-external-csv-export-button+
to any clickable element on page and set its attribute +data-grid-name+ to the name of
the grid:

      <button class="wg-external-csv-export-button" data-grid-name="grid">Export To CSV</button>

If you need to disable the default export icon in the grid, add
<tt>:hide_csv_button => true</tt> to the +grid+ helper.

=== Detached Filters

Filters can also be detached from the grid table and placed anywhere on page.

This is a 3-step process.

First, define the grid with helper +define_grid+ instead of +grid+.
Everything should be done the same way as with +grid+, but every column which will have an external filter,
add <tt>:detach_with_id => :some_filter_name+</tt> in the column definition. The value of +:detach_with_id+ is an arbitrary string
or a symbol value which will be used later to identify the filter.

  <%= define_grid(@tasks_grid, :show_filters => :always) do |g|

    g.column :name => 'Title', :attribute => 'title', :detach_with_id => :title_filter do |task|
      link_to('Edit', edit_task_path(task.title))
    end

    g.column  :name => 'Archived', :attribute => 'archived', :detach_with_id => :archived_filter do |task|
      task.archived? ? 'Yes' : 'No'
    end

    g.column :name => 'Added', :attribute => 'created_at', :detach_with_id => :created_at_filter do |task|
      task.created_at.to_s(:short)
    end

  end -%>


Then, use <tt>grid_filter(grid, :some_filter_name)</tt> to render filters:

  <% # rendering filter with key :title_filter %>
  <%= grid_filter @tasks_grid, :title_filter  %>

  <% # rendering filter with key :archived_filter %>
  <%= grid_filter @tasks_grid, :archived_filter  %>

  <% # rendering filter with key :created_at_filter %>
  <%= grid_filter @tasks_grid, :created_at_filter  %>

  <% # Rendering the grid body %>
  <%= grid(@tasks_grid) %>


Finally, use <tt>render_grid(@grid)</tt> to actually output the grid table .


Using custom submit and reset buttons together with <tt>:hide_submit_button => true</tt>
and <tt>:hide_reset_button => true</tt>
allows to completely get rid
of the default filter row and the default icons (see section 'Submit/Reset Buttons').


If a column was declared with <tt>:detach_with_id</tt>, but never output with +grid_filter+,
filtering the grid in development mode will result
in an warning javascript message and the missing filter will be ignored.
There is no such message in production.



=== Access to Records From Outside The Grid

There are two ways you can access the records outside the grid - using methods of the WiceGrid
object and using callbacks.

==== Accessing Records Via The WiceGrid Object

Method +current_page_records+ returns exactly the same list of objects displayed on page:

  <%= grid(@tasks_grid) do |g|
    ...
  end -%>

  <p>
    IDs of records on the current page:
    <%= @tasks_grid.current_page_records.map(&:id).to_sentence %>
  </p>

Method +all_pages_records+ returns a list of objects browsable through all pages with the current filters:

  <%= grid(@tasks_grid) do |g|
    ...
  end -%>

  <p>
    IDs of all records:
    <%= @tasks_grid.all_pages_records.map(&:id).to_sentence %>
  </p>

Mind that this helper results in an additional SQL query.


Because of the current implementation of WiceGrid these helpers work only after the declaration
of the grid in the view.
This is due to the lazy nature of WiceGrid - the actual call to the database is made during
the execution of
the +grid+ helper, because to build the correct query columns declarations are required.

==== Accessing Records Via Callbacks

It is possible to set up callbacks which are executed from within the plugin just after the call to the database.
The callbacks are called before rendering the grid cells, so the results of this processing can be used in the grid.
There are 3 ways you can set up such callbacks:

Via a lambda object:

  def index
    @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task,
      :with_paginated_resultset => lambda do |records|
        ...
      end
    )
  end

Via a symbol which is the name of a controller method:

  def index
    @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task,
      :with_paginated_resultset => :process_selection
    )
  end

  def process_selection(records)
    ...
  end

Via a separate block:

  def index
    @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task)

    @tasks_grid.with_paginated_resultset do |records|
      ...
    end
  end

There are two callbacks:

* <tt>:with_paginated_resultset</tt> - used to process records of the current page
* <tt>:with_resultset</tt> - used to process all records browsable through all pages with the current filters

While the <tt>:with_paginated_resultset</tt> callback just receives the list of records, <tt>:with_resultset</tt>
receives a lambda object which, when called, returns the list of all records:


  def index
    @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task)

    @tasks_grid.with_resultset do |wrapper|
      all_records = wrapper.call
      ...
    end
  end


This lazy nature exists for performance reasons.
Reading all records leads to an additional call, and there can be cases when processing all records should be triggered
only under certain circumstances:

  def index
    @tasks_grid = initialize_grid(Task)

    @tasks_grid.with_resultset do |wrapper|
      if params[:process_all_records]
        all_records = wrapper.call
        ...
      end
    end
  end



== Icons

Icons used by the plugin are courtesy of Mark James, the creator of the SILK icon set -
http://www.famfamfam.com/lab/icons/silk/.

