1. Support for Prototype has been dropped. No hard feelings, Prototype, no matter what
   others say, I liked you :)

2. All assets are in the asset pipeline. All javascript is now coffeescript. No more Rails
   2 legacy in the form of obtrusive javascript in the HTML page. The styles file is copied
   to the application asset directory by a generate task so that is it easy to modify it to
   the application needs. The javascript and images are loaded from the plugin. Read the
   Installation section in README for details. Thanks to the asset pipeline taking care of
   loading assets for us, methods +include_wice_grid_assets+, +names_of_wice_grid_stylesheets+,
   and +names_of_wice_grid_javascripts+ have been removed

3. ERB mode has been removed. It had never been used by anyone and is bad style anyway. In
   case you have no idea what it was, here's what it was:

      <% grid(@countries_grid, :erb_mode => true) do |g| %>
        <% g.column :column_name => 'Name', :attribute_name => 'name' do |country| %>
          <b>Name: <%= link_to(country.name, country_path(country)) %></b>
        <% end %>
      <% end -%>

4. WiceGrid is compatible with Twitter Bootstrap out of the box.

5. Paths to various images used by WiceGrid have been removed from the configuration file
   and are now defined only in the css file. Developers are encouraged to modify
   <tt>wice_grid.css.scss</tt> to use other images and to change the styles in general.

6. The markup and css classes that WiceGrid generates have changed, and CSS for older versions
   of WiceGrid might not work. Inspect the source code.

7. Parameter names in the grid helper have been renamed:
   * <tt>:table_html_attrs</tt> becomes <tt>:html</tt>
   * <tt>:header_tr_html_attrs</tt> becomes <tt>:header_tr_html</tt>

8. Parameter names in column definitions have been renamed:
   * <tt>:column_name</tt> becomes <tt>:name</tt>
   * <tt>:attribute_name</tt> becomes <tt>:attribute</tt>
   * <tt>:model_class</tt> becomes <tt>:model</tt>
   * <tt>:allow_ordering</tt>  becomes <tt>:ordering</tt>
   * <tt>:td_html_attrs</tt>  becomes <tt>:html</tt>
   * Negation in the parameter name does not contribute to the simplicity of an API, so
     <tt>:no_filter</tt> in  becomes <tt>:filter</tt>. Consequently, <tt>:no_filter => true</tt>
     becomes <tt>:filter => false</tt>
   * <tt>:negation_in_filter</tt> becomes <tt>:negation</tt>


9. New configuration parameter <tt>DEFAULT_TABLE_CLASSES</tt> contains CSS classes added to
   all WiceGrid tables by default.

10. In previous versions of WiceGrid in the jQuery mode DateTime filters used to automatically
    fall back on Rails DateTime helpers due to absence of time controls in jQuery DatePicker.
    In version 3.2 this behavior has been changed to always use jQuery DatePicker, even with
    DateTime filters. Of course it is possible to force  Rails DateTime with
    <tt>:helper_style => :standard</tt> in the column definition.

11. The second variable injected into to <tt>before_row</tt> and <tt>after_row</tt> block,
    and the first parameter injected into the <tt>last_row</tt> is the number of columns in
    the current grid.

12. <tt>:csv_field_separator</tt> is a new parameter for +initialize_grid+ defining the field
    separator in CSV files. The default separator is defined by +CSV_FIELD_SEPARATOR+ in the
    config file.

13. New parameter +:confirm+ for +saved_queries_panel+ which turns on or off the JS confirm
    dialogs when deleting saved queries.

14. Instead of the old rake task creating a table for serialized queries a generator has been
    added which adds a migration file to +db/migrations+.

15. Instead of using helpers +submit_grid_javascript+ and +reset_grid_javascript+ to create
    external Submit and Reset buttons all you have to do is add a button or any other
    clickable HTML element with class +wg-external-submit-button+ or +wg-external-reset-button+,
    and attribute +data-grid-name+ whose value is the name of the grid:

      <button class="wg-external-submit-button" data-grid-name="grid">Submit</button>
      <button class="wg-external-reset-button" data-grid-name="grid">Reset</button>


    The same goes for the external CSV export button, only the CSS class is
    +wg-external-csv-export-button+:

      <button class="wg-external-csv-export-button" data-grid-name="grid">Export To CSV</button>

